# LUDDITES' OPEN LICENSE ("LOL")

Version 0.1, 24-06-2024

Copyright (c) %YEAR%, %COPYRIGHT_OWNER%

Everyone is allowed to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this License
document but no change is permitted.

## Preamble

This License is technically not "free" and "open source" in the sense of GNU
GPL, LGPL or AGPL (published by the Free Software Foundation), MPL (published
by the Mozilla Foundation) and OSL or NPOSL (published by Open Software
Initiative, OSI). Neither is it a "permissive" (open source) license like BSD,
MIT, Apache or AFL (OSI). It is an open access (source code availability)
license that allows access to the source code, its review, modification, use,
redistribution and derivative work but restricts distribution to research,
educational and other non-commercial or non-for-profit purposes. This license
also explicitly prohibits to use the source code for training or any other
development of any Artificially Intelligence (AI) models, algorithms or
datasets. However, the outputs generated by The Program can be used for AI
development (e.g. to generate synthetic data) as long as they do not include
any copyrighted parts of The Program.

The premise for this License is to allow open and unrestricted access to and
the use of the software covered by this License but restrict its distribution
to personal, educational or research purposes, protecting the exclusive rights
of the Copyright owners (authors) to any commercial or for-profit use.  This
includes protection from unauthorized use of parts of the (or the whole) source
code in any derivative work generated using the Artificial Intelligence
technology.

## 1. Definitions

"The Program" and "source code" refer to copyrightable work licensed under this
License. The "source code" refers to the textual form of the program that is
preferred for review, study and making modifications, while "object code"
and/or "compiled code" include any non-source form of the program. The Program
does not include anything that the user of The Program can generate
automatically from The Program unless it represents a part of The Program
itself, such as user interface, license notes, help screens, documentation and
alike.

"The User" can be any licensee and recipient of The Program, including
individuals or organizations. Each licensee is addressed as "you." 

"Modification" means taking any parts from The Program and/or adapting these
parts in any way that requires copyright permission, except making an exact
verbatim copy. The result of such modification is a "modified version" or
"derivative work." This License covers the unmodified program as well as any
derivative work in source or compiled form.

"Distribution" includes any propagation or conveyance of The Program in the
original or modified form, including making it available to the public, so
other parties can receive, use, make copies or modify The Program. This
includes, but is not restricted to, making digital copies on any physical media
such as hard disk, CD and other removable media, as well as transmission
through a computer network.

"Using" The Program entails any activity in accordance with applicable laws,
including but not restricted to review, study, copying and modifying, compiling
into an object or executable form, running the compiled code on the
user's machine or through the computer network.

"Artificial Intelligence" (AI) refers to any software or hardware technology or
otherwise engineered system with the primary purpose to generate automated
outputs such as content, forecasts, recommendations or decisions based on any
or specific kinds of training data, structured or unstructured. AI may include,
but is not limited to, machine learning, deep learning, large language models,
natural language processing, data mining, neuromorphic systems, robotic
automation and alike.

## 2. Licenses

The Copyright owners (authors) of The Program hereby grant the following rights
to you, The User of The Program, covered by this License, on the condition that
The User complies with all of the restrictions set forth in this License.

2.1. The User is allowed to make use of The Program for any lawful purposes,
including but not restricted to review, studying, compiling, running,
modifying, distributing in unmodified or modified form in accordance with the
terms of this License under the applicable laws. 

2.2. Any distribution of The Program must always include an unmodified copy of
this License.

2.3. The User can copy and distribute unmodified versions of The Program in any
medium without restrictions except as described in section 3.11 of this License
and applicable laws.

2.4. The User is allowed to modify The Program, create derivative works and
distribute such works in any medium without restrictions except those imposed
by this License and the applicable laws.

## 3. Restrictions

This License is subject to the following restrictions:

3.1. Any activities other than compiling, running, copying, distribution and
modification of The Program as well as using its source code or any source code
contents from any derivative works to develop or train Artificial Intelligence
algorithms and data sets as described in 3.5 are outside the scope and are not
subject to this license. Running The Program on the your machine, local or over
a computer network, is not restricted provided this is not a part of a paid
service accessible to a third party. Any output produced through The Program is
subject to this License if its contents constitute any part of The Program.

3.2. Distribution of The Program or any derivative work based on The Program to
any third party is prohibited if any payment is made in connection with such
distribution, either directly or indirectly. This restriction may include, but
is not limited to, payment for a copy of The Program, a service related to The
Program, or any payment for some service that includes a copy of The Program in
either source or compiled form but that is provided without charge itself. This
restriction is applied to other similar cases as applicable to the law. 

3.3. Given the restrictions 3.2 and 3.5, The Program can be distributed on a
removable media, provided that all files of this Program, including this
License, are reproduced entirely and verbatim, and that all information on such
media be re-distributable for non-commercial non-for-profit purposes without
charge, and that such media are distributed independent of any other product or
service and that any applicable fee covers only the cost of the removable media
as such.

3.4. Given the restrictions in 3.2 and 3.5, this License permits distribution
of The Program on a public access or storage service allowing generally
unrestricted retrieval, provided that the applicable fee is completely
unrelated to the content and that access to this service and The Program is
available independent of any other products or services. 

3.5. The recipient of The Program is not allowed to use the content of The
Program source or object code or any modifications or derivative works for the
purpose of developing, training or improving Artificial Intelligence
algorithms, including but not limited to machine learning, large language
models, natural language processing, or data mining. Any usage of The Program
source content for Artificial Intelligence training is considered a breach of
this License.

3.6. Any derivative work shall be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
parties under the terms of this License, especially as required by 3.2 and 3.5.
The text of this License shall accompany any copy of the derivative work.

3.6. Any derivative work that is based wholly or in part on The Program should
carry a prominent notice stating that the derivative work is a modification of
The Program and the date of any change (changelog). Such notice must be added
to each modified file and include the modifier's name, basic contact
information (e-mail), date and the purpose of the change. The notice shall also
include the URI (hyperlink) to the primary source code repository of The
Program and, if applicable, The Program official web site. If The Program has
been originally described or published in a scientific publication authored by
the Copyright owner (authors), this publication shall also be cited in the
notice.

3.7. The built-in documentation or brief manual, the "About the program" or
other similar user information menu or interactive user interface command that
is produced and/or is accessible during the runtime of the derivative work
shall include the notice as required by 3.6. It also must issue a notice
clearly stating that there is no warranty (or in some circumstances, that the
author or the maintainer of the derivative work provides such a warranty). The
notice shall further state that the user may redistribute the derivative work
only under conditions of this License. A menu item, command or link to this
License must be added, such that the user can access, view and copy this
License.

3.8. Any derivative work, including the executable program, shall include the
complete source code in standard machine-readable format, on a medium
customarily used for software distribution and interchange (e.g. plain text
files). The form of distribution must allow further copying and modification by
the recipient in accordance with this License. Deliberate obfuscation of source
code or its distribution only in any automatically generated intermediate
format (e.g. preprocessor, translator or pre-compiler) is prohibited.

3.9. A derivative work that includes any written or printed material shall
include a written copy of this License or a clear indication that the
derivative work is covered by this License along with the URI (hyperlink) to
the unmodified text of this License as well as a link to the original Program
official web site.

3.10. If the distribution of the compiled object, binary or any other
executable form of the derivative work involves the recipient's capacity to
obtain (e.g. download) any file of the derivative work from a designated source
(e.g. a public repository) at their own choice, the offering shall also include
the complete source code, along with a prominent notice describing where and
how the source code can be obtained, even if the recipient or other third
parties are not compelled to copy or otherwise obtain the source code along
with the object or executable code.

3.11. Specific restrictions on the use and distribution of The Program can be
applied by the law, such as export control rules, to specific countries.

3.12. The derivative work may not impose any further or additional restrictions
on the recipient or third party unless such restrictions are required in
accordance with the applicable law.

## 4. Reservation of Rights

No rights are granted to The Program except as explicitly set forth herein. Any
use of The Program, including copying, modifying, distributing or
sub-licensing, except as explicitly provided under this License, is considered
a breach of this License and prohibited. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
distribute or sublicense The Program is void and automatically terminates your
rights under this License. However, third parties who have received copies, or
rights under this License and remain in full compliance, shall not have their
license terminated.

## 5. Exceptions

If any part of this License is found to be in conflict with the law, that part
shall be interpreted in its broadest meaning consistent with the law, and no
other parts of the License shall be affected.

## 6. Limitations

THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED TO YOU "AS IS" (OR "AS AVAILABLE"), WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY. THERE IS NO WARRANTY WHATSOEVER FOR THE PROGRAM, EITHER EXPRESSED OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ABSENCE OF LATENT AND
OTHER DEFECTS, ACCURACY OR PRESENCE OR ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT KNOWN
OR DISCOVERABLE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM
PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR
CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT AND UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL LICENSOR OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO
MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED BY THIS LICENSE, BE
LIABLE TO ANYONE FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, GENERAL, SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE
THE PROGRAM, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WORK STOPPAGE, LOSS OF GODWILL, DATA
OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES
OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS, DATA OR
EQUIPMENT, EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.


